I should begin by saying
what an honor it is to make your acquaintance.
I've read all about your games.
Very impressive.
It's a shame
to leave a mind as brilliant as yours
rotting in such a hole.
Down!
There are very few who have such power
to lever you out of this place.
I am among one such group of individuals.
We can make it look like you escaped.
Many years ago. some items of worth were misplaced.
We want them back.
Help us and you will be free.
Does the name.
Tewkesbury
mean anything to you?
I read somewhere that
all good stories begin with a wedding.
Where is she?
This one certainly does.
She's very late.
Someone's approaching.
Nice.
Here we go.
- Oh.
Regrettably. however. this wedding
is lacking one crucial element.
'Tis I.
No. really.
You see. the bride in question is having doubts
about what it means to become a lady.
Don't touch the ginger cake.
Plays hopscotch with your bowels.
I do.
Lady Enola Tewkesbury.
It doesn't sound right.
I don't!
I've spent the six years making
myself feel worthy of the Holmes name.
Would I now be giving that up?
And as I was once told by a wise woman…
- Well. not a wise woman. My mother.
- There are two paths you can take. Enola.
Yours. or the path others choose for you.
But it's Tewkesbury.
Ow! Will you stop that?
I cannot leave him there.
I won't.
Coachman Eric? Coachman Eric?
I thought you'd scarpered.
Has Sherlock gone ahead?
Darling girl. everyone's at your wedding. bar you.
- Now. are you ready to go?
- Yes. yes. go!
- Yah. yah!
- Fast as you can!
Now might be a good time
to tell you my wedding is in Malta.
the small island in the Mediterranean Sea.
for reasons that are complicated to understand.
- She'll be here. don't worry.
- Yes. of course.
Yah! Yah!
Excuse me. madam.
To concern you a little.
we have a man in pursuit.
He does not look savory.
Highwaymen. vagabonds. thieves!
Malta has more than its fair share.
Yah! Yah!
Whoa!
Keep down! Keep down. madam!
- This is no place for a lady!
- I'm not a lady yet!
- Quicker!
- Here. take this!
Madam. what are you doing?!
Come down from up there!
Enola! It's me!
Dr. Watson!
Enola. are you okay?
Why were you wearing a mask?
Oh. it's a handkerchief.
The dust plays havoc with my lungs.
- You thought I was...
- Murdering me?
- No.
- Yes. that's exactly what I thought.
Why were you pursuing me?
It's your brother.
He's missing.
In fact. I'm more or less certain. Enola.
that Sherlock has been kidnapped.
I'm sorry?
I understand you may need
some explanation as to how this all began.
The truth is. we had our lives exactly as we wanted.
Tewkesbury continued to be the champion
for change and progress.
and I had finally joined the pantheon
of great Victorian detectives.
alongside my brother.
He helped those with means. and I helped those with needs.
And on occasion. we worked together.
I was happy.
And here. the trail runs cold.
Don't come any further.
We have to keep it as clear as we can.
A horse was mounted.
- And the man made his departure this way.
- A good suggestion.
You have another?
The man was lassoed by a noose and hanged from here.
Do you see the rope remnants
that have not been fully cut away?
And the marks here. where flailing feet aimed for purchase.
Sherlock. this is not where the man disappeared.
This is a murder scene.
- Is that Sherlock Holmes?
- They're less fun than you'd think.
Detection filled my weeks.
and on the weekends were. well…
Tewkesbury. what are you doing?
Got a gift.
- Flowers?
- No.
Herbs?
Close your eyes.
Okay.
What have you found?
- Oh!
- I just found him.
- Sweet boy.
- Can you believe it?
Nice to meet you.
- It was glorious.
- He's a bit shy.
It was fun.
When it was neither fun nor glorious.
when it was just the two of us.
those were the best times of all.
Back. And when I go in. you back against that.
No. Tewkesbury. Tewkesbury!
So whilst my life seemed completely uncomplicated.
my dear. dear lord decided to add a slight complication.
Enola Eudoria Holmes.
uh. will you take I.
Earnest Augustus of the House of Tewkesbury…
Yes.
He has a first name. I… I was surprised too.
…to be your husband?
Read all about it!
Suddenly. we had the attention of the whole of London.
- Delightful.
- Ravishing.
Well. except for one person.
Sherlock Holmes.
The world's most famous detective
had become obsessed with something.
Hello. Sherlock.
It was all maps and symbols.
and nothing I could make any sense of.
I couldn't understand why he was keeping it from me.
On the flowers…
- We did discuss chrysanthemums.
- Chrysanthemums?
Yes! They're my favorite.
What's next? Oh!
I have prepared a short list of our nearest and dearest.
Yes. I do. uh. have one myself.
Can I borrow your pen?
Just one more person. She won't be able to make it.
Here you are.
No room for your mother? She will be quite welcome.
My mother has become a…
…fugitive of the first class.
So attending a well-advertised ceremony such as this
would compromise her safety
greatly.
Might there be an uncle…
- Mother.
- …who might walk you down the aisle?
Well. I spoke with Sherlock…
Ta-da.
…and he consented to do so.
- He will?
- Yes.
Congratulations.
And so he will do so curmudgeonly.
and he will lack elegance
and a sense of life behind his eyes.
but he is all I have. so it will be great.
Of course. not all will attend on Earnest's side.
He is well-loved. but…
Given the family's history.
I presume the wedding will be in Malta?
Malta.
Malta?
Where on earth has that come from?
Well. I was taking tea with the ladies.
and of course the wedding was the talk of the table.
When the topic moved on to the matter of the venue.
one of the ladies asked where Peter and I were wed.
and I thought it just wonderful.
Malta.
What better way to honor your father?
- I'm sorry.
- It was my husband's delight.
His time in the military was spent there. we met there.
we married there.
And Earnest deeply loved his childhood summers there.
I did.
Of course. if you wish to do it elsewhere.
that is the bride's prerogative.
My wedding in Malta?
I had so many questions.
What does one wear to a Maltese wedding?
Do I know anyone in Malta?
Perhaps you're free this Saturday.
Are you free this Saturday?
Pretend to be my great-great-grandmother.
More importantly. how did Sherlock know before I did?
And why was he so concerned?
Pay attention. Enola.
Here's what my mother taught me.
Though but a speck in the Mediterranean Sea.
Malta has been invaded by the Phoenicians.
the Romans. and even Napoleon.
for its strategic importance.
Since 1814.
the island has been under military control
of the British Empire.
Oh. hello.
Oh. sorry. ma'am.
Before I knew it. the wedding was upon us.
And that is how we found ourselves
in a room packed full of the great and the good.
His family. delighted the young viscount
had finally settled on a bride.
and my family.
well. behaving in a more complicated manner.
Were no more of your family
able to join for the wedding party?
No.
Oh.
Ladies and gentlemen.
as the British governor of this beautiful province.
it is my honor to invite our great defender.
Brigadier General Sampson. to make a toast.
Brigadier General!
You'll meet him. He's great.
Thank you. everyone. Thank you. Uh…
As godfather to the groom.
it is an honor and delight to make tonight's toast.
Now. my friend. uh. Lord Tewkesbury.
uh. Peter.
was a proud father.
and he saw in his son an opportunity to make a man.
And what Earnest has shown us
since his ascension to the House of Lords
has been most distinguished.
Young revolutionary prepared to stand side by side
with those less fortunate
and see them almost as equals.
Which. uh. perhaps explains his choice of bride.
I jest.
Forgive me. I jest.
Yes. uh. she's quite a remarkable young woman.
As is my godson.
a. well. a remarkable young man.
What a couple they will make.
Ladies and gentlemen.
would you please be upstanding?
If you'll excuse me.
I give you…
I'm sorry. I don't know what that was about.
…the happy couple.
- The happy couple.
Sherlock!
Where have you been?
That is none of your concern.
What business have you in Malta?
Is this a new case? And if so. why wouldn't you include me?
Who is that man you were watching?
Enola. I'm tired.
Or are you simply just distracting yourself
from the boredom of watching your sister
commit to something you have no stake in?
- Oh. it is I that is seeking distraction?
- You are making a judgment.
It is not a subtle one.
I do not blame you for it.
If I were in your situation. I would seek distraction too.
Why would you give away your freedom to these people?
I am not giving away freedom. I am simply marrying a lord.
- I knew what I was getting myself into.
- What could tempt you to be predictable?
Of course you can't understand an act of love.
What can marriage offer a mind such as yours?
You give up your name.
- Your standing as a detective.
- I will keep working.
Take on title and tradition you cannot understand.
No. You are better than that.
You are a Holmes.
And what good is that name?
My father's dead.
My eldest brother a bore.
My mother. a stick of dynamite long since exploded.
And all that's left is you.
And if this is how you choose to love me.
then I would rather lose my name for eternity.
You're being emotional.
I understand that you are upset.
but I am also right.
You have compromised yourself fatally.
I am not so frightened of society
that I will not conform to its wishes occasionally.
Tewkesbury needs to be married. So I will… I must marry...
Do as you are told?
Oh yes.
You are a pig. Sherlock Holmes.
This pig would like some peace and quiet.
That was the last time I saw him.
But Sherlock Holmes
kidnapped?
It's not possible.
It's not only possible.
but probable.
- Interesting.
- What's interesting?
The room has been torn apart.
Well.
it looks perfectly normal to me.
His garments have been left untouched.
so whoever did this knows he cares nothing for them.
which means whoever did this
has some knowledge of my brother.
It's warm.
He was taken within the last few hours.
He was smoking Bristol tobacco.
Not his usual shag.
His notebooks.
A testing code.
I will break it.
- What case were you working on here?
- In Malta?
No case. We're here for your wedding.
But last night at the banquet. he was watching someone.
Case?
- What case? Why did I not know of this...
- Stop.
A Holmes does not disappear
without leaving clues for a Holmes.
Other detectives may be available.
My brother has left his mark somewhere.
What if he hasn't?
Then you do not know my brother at all.
I care for him too.
I know.
I apologize.
You're scared. We both are.
I do not doubt Sherlock has doubted me.
but he must have left me something.
Let's keep looking.
K-H…
O…
S-T?
Khost?
Yes. Isn't that a city in...
In Afghanistan. yes.
- Where are you seeing this?
- On the mirror.
- On the mirror?
- Mm.
Might they just be signs of a struggle?
No. that's Morse code.
Perhaps.
whilst he was being taken.
he was dragged out and left this for us.
Khost?
Ah.
They're returning.
The wedding party.
No. he needs to understand.
Off we go.
Surprising.
The audacity.
Absolute disgrace.
I'm not the most popular soul in Malta right now.
Understandably.
But he will understand when I tell him
of Sherlock's disappearance.
Pull on every loose thread you find.
Tewkesbury will understand.
I hope.
But I cannot let him escape.
This is a clue. As my mother taught me.
when you're solving a mystery.
you pull on a ball of thread.
I'm losing my mind.
Coming through!
No. wait!
Sir!
Move. move. move!
Terribly sorry!
- Move!
- Just stop!
Excuse me!
Sorry!
Stop him!
Excuse me!
Make way!
Move!
Sir!
Look at me. I will find you help.
Please. just tell me your name.
- Where's my brother? Where's my brother?
- Wrath.
Wrath?
What's "wrath"?
Wrath.
What's "wrath"? Sir. wake up!
Wake up. What's "wrath"?
Please. somebody help!
Look for what's there.
Not what you want to be there.
You'll see the truth soon enough.
My brother is missing. and the man he was pursuing. dead.
Why was Sherlock suspicious of that sergeant?
Why was he killed?
Wrath.
And by who?
It's all connected.
But at this stage. I don't know how.
All I really have are two words.
Khost. we know.
But what of wrath?
Another place?
A person?
Perhaps Sherlock knew.
His notebooks.
Of course he wrote them in code.
Well. you forget I. too. was raised on ciphers.
Two five-letter words.
The fourth letter in the first
matches the last letter in the second.
Khost. Wrath.
- Agh!
- Oh dear!
Tewkesbury!
- Good grief. Enola!
- Oh my!
- I hadn't even knocked. and you're...
- It was a scary shadow.
Is it bleeding?
- Yes. very much.
- For goodness' sake.
- Can I see it?
- No. just...
Is it broken?
- No. just let me...
- If you wiggle your nose...
Shh!
Your poor nose.
- Can I just take a look at your nose?
- Whoa.
Is that your blood?
- No.
- Enola.
- No. it's the blood of another.
- Oh. good.
In any other hands. that would be horrifying to hear.
With yours. it's a relief.
- Well?
- Sherlock is missing.
I heard.
And I'm scared.
This is not how I imagined this moment.
In truth. this is not how I imagined this day.
I was on my way to you.
I was traveling at great speed.
and then Dr. Watson was following me.
I thought he was a highwayman. so I tried to shoot at him.
hence the state of my dress...
Let me play detective for once.
Why were you traveling at great speed?
To be with you.
You were already late.
To your own wedding.
Your doubts about this have been clear for some time.
- Tewkesbury...
- No. don't.
I am sorry for any pain I have caused you.
I truly hope you succeed in finding your brother.
I'm sure you will.
Perhaps my mother was right. I am meant to be alone.
You're gonna do very well on your own. Enola.
This is the place he took me to when we first arrived here.
This is where Father and I spent all our summers.
- You see that cave?
- Yes.
He told me when I was a boy
that there was treasure hidden inside.
So every summer. I'd ask him to take me to that cave.
and we would strike matches.
We'd walk into the darkness together.
pretending to be pirates or something.
Come on. matey.
I remember vividly my heart beating like mad.
truly thinking we might find a chest or something.
I did adore his stories though.
Yeah.
Times spent here.
they were some of the happiest of my life.
I did not mean to hurt him.
I do not know if I can solve this case.
But if whoever this is
will kill a man to protect their identity…
What will they do to my brother?
Fire!
No!
Tewkesbury! Tewkesbury!
- Where's Tewkesbury?
- He… he went inside!
- No!
- He was looking for his mother!
We tried to stop him!
Enola. stop!
Mother! Are you there?
- Tewkesbury!
- Over here!
Where are you?
Mother!
- Mother!
- Tewkesbury!
Tewkesbury!
Tewkesbury. We have to go. She's not here.
- Nobody's seen her.
- We have to go. please.
No. Mother!
Tewkesbury. did you force the door when you came in here?
No. I didn't.
Tewkesbury.
- Mother!
- Tewkesbury. look at me.
- She has been kidnapped.
- What?
We have to leave. We have to go right now.
Please!
Mother!
Deep breath.
And again.
One more.
Hmm.
Well.
you sound fine. though you may not feel that way.
Why would somebody take his mother?
Dr. Watson.
what would my brother do?
- Deep breath.
- Ouch!
I'm not a detective.
You know. when I first moved in.
he didn't know what to make of me. if you can imagine that.
But I hoped we could be friends.
so every day at teatime. I'd prepare a tray
and I'd ask him how his latest case was progressing.
And every day…
…he wouldn't know how to respond.
You'd have thought a cup of tea was a gun to his head.
He just… He couldn't… he couldn't
quite fathom why I might be curious.
And every day I tried.
Finally. I thought.
"It's making you unhappy. John. Let go."
And then one day. I was sat by the fire.
finishing some work of my own.
and he appeared with a cup of tea.
Terrible tea.
Mm. Yes. Too much milk.
Far too much.
But he sat down. and for the first time.
he told me about his case.
and I found myself inexorably drawn in.
What did he tell you?
Well. that's between me and him and my diaries.
But…
…you asked me
what would Sherlock truly say were he here.
He isn't.
And you are.
He thinks your brain equal to his.
Dear Doctor. I hope he's right.
Try. Enola.
Talk to him.
Hello.
Do you think it was the same people that took Sherlock?
I am certain of it.
Why would they take my mother?
I don't know. But I will find out.
I know you are capable of finding her.
but she has not Sherlock's strength.
She has always lived a very… cosseted life.
When did you last see her?
I left her
at nine. I went to say goodnight.
She offered me comfort.
Everything will be much improved by morning.
She was wearing a nightgown. Enola.
I cannot waste another moment.
I'm going to ask the brigadier for help.
What would my brother say?
A lady would never leave
her room unaccompanied at that hour.
She would have gone to sleep.
I was also taken from my room.
They risked much returning to the scene.
Then there is the fire.
Are we truly dealing with a kidnapper.
a murderer. and an arsonist all in one?
You ask the wrong question. Go back.
Why did the kidnapper start the fire?
Precisely.
This kidnapper was looking for something.
But whatever he was seeking. he did not find.
And if you cannot find an object…
Burn everything so no one will find it either.
Focus. Enola. Make no mistake. you are racing for my life.
And possibly your own.
Medals.
Who are you?
- Hey. hey. hey. whoa. whoa. Easy.
- Who are you?
Why are you here?
I'm not telling you.
- Where is Sherlock Holmes?
- I do not know.
- Where have you taken him?
- I have not taken him.
I can assure you I am desperate enough.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. Well. that would be stupid.
No. and you… you… you are not stupid.
Now. that was stupid.
Hey.
Whoa. whoa. whoa!
You…
Oh. lady. Oh. oh!
Jeez. no! Ow. ow!
All right. all right. I…
I believe your brother was taken
by Professor Adeline Rathe.
Wrath.
- Who is she?
- What?
Where is she?!
Look. I have been following you
in the hope that you might
find a way to her that I have not.
She's a ghost. and a brutal one.
She has the ear of the governor.
She appeared a year ago.
hearing everything. We do not trust her.
And this woman has taken my brother and Lady Tewkesbury?
Please get off me.
Who are you?
My name is Mikiel Mizzi of the Partito Anti-Riformista.
and we believe in a free Malta.
And we wish to be rid of your Crown.
Of your destruction.
Of using our soldiers to fight your battles.
not caring if they live or die.
And your need to control a country
that you know nothing about.
I know who you are. Enola Holmes.
You are a great detective.
Your brother...
If the police catch me here. they will throw me in jail.
- I have to go.
- No. you have to talk.
You will require my help again.
- I will require yours.
- You can't go.
- Our paths will cross.
- I have more questions.
I'll be watching you. Goodbye. Enola.
Uh…
We are aware of you. Miss Holmes.
Inspector Lestrade has been very useful to us.
We told him you were troubling. He said that is your way.
Troubling how?
An eyewitness puts you next to a dead body
at the scene of a crime.
- The man was clearly shot from above.
- A dead body you failed to report.
- Then we find you inside a police...
- Sergeant. my brother is missing.
My future mother-in-law is missing.
I am a detective.
and I am trying to find the woman
held responsible for all of this.
Which woman?
Professor Adeline Rathe.
Why might you be interested in...
- Sergeant Indri.
- Yes. Governor.
- You appear to have made a mistake.
- Sir. I...
You are here under a remit for Maltese crimes.
Enola Holmes is English.
She is your better.
- Oh. sir.
- Uh. I do not think I am better. It...
Sir. respectfully. she is here
for a criminal investigation.
- I do not believe...
- I do not care what you believe. Sergeant.
Miss Holmes.
you may leave.
Once again. Miss Holmes. I apologize for our misjudgment.
Thank you. sir. You've been a huge help.
Absolutely. sir.
- What is this?
- The summer carnival.
How jolly.
- I did not like that any more than you.
- Is that how people here are treated?
- It is the system.
- The system is not serviceable.
Why was he so eager
for me to stop speaking to the sergeant?
Also. I found these in your mother's room.
Whose are they?
These are my father's war medals.
Maybe they were meant as a wedding gift?
Enola?
What are you looking at?
- Wrath…
- She has the ear of the governor.
Enola!
- Tewkesbury. I have to go.
- Enola... Shall I join?
Speak to that sergeant. Find out what he knows.
Viva carnival!
Hey. hey. hey. hey!
Hey!
Wait.
No!
Wait!
Hello?
You should not have followed me.
Are you Professor Adeline Rathe?
No. No.
- I need to know where my brother is.
- You have made a mistake.
- Look at me. I can help you.
- She will kill you.
- Who will kill me?
Who is she?
Tell me. Tell me! Please. tell me.
Not again.
Oh no.
- Who is she?
- She will kill you.
Hearing everything.
Ignored for years.
- Playing them all.
- It's all a game.
- She's having…
- Fun.
Perhaps we shall take to the floor again.
We make it look like you escaped. Professor.
Moriarty.
What a clever girl you are. Enola Holmes.
Stop!
Where is my brother? Is he dead?
Is he dead?!
Not yet.
It pleases me to keep him.
Though he has given up on hoping you will come to save him.
- Why are you here?
- Isn't this splendid?
The British government are building Malta a sewage network.
A wonderful place to hide.
Of course. there's the matter of the wedding.
With all those newspaper announcements.
you practically invited me.
That sad expression on his face. waiting for you.
Did you get cold feet. Enola?
Though perhaps he deserved to suffer.
You came here to ruin my family?
Amongst other things. yes.
You're further behind the curve
than I thought. Detective Holmes.
No!
Step away from my daughter!
Mother! Get off of me!
Eudoria Holmes.
- How delightful.
- Oh. no.
The pleasure's mine.
Your children vex me.
Well. they vex me too.
- You all right?
- Yes.
She's gone.
'Tis I.
Well. this is all a ridiculous merry mess.
Ridiculous is you being here. Mother.
You walking away from me?
Yes. I am.
Because I have work to do.
My brother is missing. my soon-to-be mother-in-law is. and…
You have been absent for far too long.
Well.
I was here for your wedding.
One is a wanted woman. One could hardly advertise it.
So you just expected to watch my wedding
in secret and then flee back to London?
- That sounds less romantic than I had it.
- How did you have it?
Well. I wanted to see you walk down the aisle.
I wanted. um.
to see you.
May we hug now?
Mother.
Now. I have other matters to attend to.
Namely. the kidnap of my favorite child.
- Favorite?
- Mm. Have you met Sherlock?
Glorious in combat. but what a mind.
Now it is up to you to find him.
You do not think me capable?
On the contrary. I think you're extraordinary.
Word of advice. if I may.
Moriarty has the same brain as your brother's.
So look for what's in front of you. yes.
but do not forget to look behind that front.
The puzzle is always as devious as the setter.
Write that down.
Can you tie it?
What was your dress like?
Ill-used.
And why weren't you at the church?
- Perhaps a question for another time.
- Mm.
Don't despair. darling.
You learnt the most important thing.
Sherlock is alive.
- They're both alive?
- Yes.
This is all Moriarty?
Yes.
All along.
And you nearly died?
I fell for her trap. Twice. Tewkesbury. Twice.
- You were…
- That's so unlike me.
You were brave.
Oh!
- I… I can manage. It's all right.
- I insist.
Please.
Wh…
Why are you so good to me?
Because I'm choosing to be.
You're all I have. Enola.
And I'm not going to lose you.
Is that a bathing cabin?
What?
Enola. did...
Take off your shoes. You'll slip.
I have never been in one of these.
All so that a woman could take a swim in the sea.
Shall we take a swim?
I missed you.
Me too.
I was never forcing you into this marriage?
No.
Look. I was never saying. "You must marry me." was I?
When I said yes.
I said yes to you.
And then it felt like everyone was crowding in
with what I must say and how I must behave
and who I should invite and…
Yeah.
I started to feel I wasn't enough.
But any doubt was never of you.
Never of spending my life with you or
committing to you.
I'm sorry.
I know I hurt you terribly.
Thank you.
Drink.
I could get used to this.
Give her water.
I will quench her after I am done with you.
I say.
here's fun.
Why don't you tell me what I'm planning?
I've left enough clues.
Yes.
You came to Malta a year ago.
I suspect at the behest of someone in power
who could have negotiated your early release from prison.
I believe you contrived to bring
my sister here and her wedding here.
How. I do not know.
But impressively. you accomplished it.
Well. perhaps you should ask your cellmate.
And how easy you were to manipulate. Lady Tewkesbury.
Wanting your exotic wedding.
Remind me. where did you and your husband marry?
Malta.
Hmm.
Ah.
Masterful stroke.
That's high praise from you.
When we got to the island.
you set a stone rolling down a slope.
You kidnapped me to make Enola
perform for you.
So I trap you in order to make her work.
Why would I do that?
Because you know she cares.
That is not the question.
Enola is behaving rationally.
She is doing all she can
to right this situation. whereas you…
Is it in service to others? No.
You never truly work for others. or with them.
They believe you do. but then you just do away with them
as soon as their purpose is served.
Is it an act of revenge?
No.
Far too base for Professor Moriarty.
Did I mention I met your mother?
She blows up a post office. and you celebrate.
I do not.
Yet I steal from the truly corrupt.
and you watch me carted to prison.
Ah.
This is an anger with us.
My anger is with hypocrisy.
My boredom is with you.
Your suppositions are moderate.
I expected better.
I played your game.
You promised her water.
Indeed.
I need little from you…
And less from her.
Worry not.
I have no great thirst.
Do not worry. Lady Tewkesbury.
Enola will succeed.
It was Moriarty all along.
But why?
You came here to ruin my family.
Revenge on us?
Far too simple for her. surely?
Moriarty has the same brain as your brother's.
Look for what's in front of you.
but do not forget to look behind that front.
There is more to understand here.
But what?
Enola. are you awake?
- I've had a thought.
- Yes?
The woman in the purple dress...
The family you're marrying into are intolerable.
This woman gave me a bedpan. thought I was her maid.
Mother.
Oh! Aha. son-in-law.
Well. almost. Uh. back together?
Uh…
I quite agree. by the way.
My family are rather intolerable.
- Earnest.
- Tewkesbury.
Eudoria Holmes.
- It's an honor.
- I like him.
Would you like a bedpan?
Yes. please.
Now. daughter. have you found a thread
that is worth pulling on?
We are all out of morphine and bandages.
I'm quite exhausted.
Please tell me we're close on finding Sherlock.
You must be Dr. Watson.
Eudoria Holmes.
A… a great pleasure.
Two handsome men in a tent. We are very lucky.
Do you wish to say everything that comes to your mind?
Yes.
Dr. Watson. I feel we are getting closer to Sherlock.
but I have no firm leads. and I need time to think.
- We'd do better to let you sit alone.
- Thank you.
When Sherlock's deducing. he prefers complete silence.
Sherlock is a bore.
A little discussion I don't think
is gonna hurt Enola's thoughts.
- I...
- I have a thought.
- Three men. It's an avalanche.
- Hello?
I apologize. I was close at hand.
No. you were listening in.
- Do you know how loud you all are?
- Who's this?
My name is Mikiel Mizzi of the Partito Anti-Riformista.
"We wish to be rid of your Crown."
And you want a free Malta.
- Actually. I'd like everyone to leave.
- I can't.
Um. I fear there is something you have missed.
The woman in the purple dress. All right? Her hat.
Her hat was from Garrett & Co.'s.
Mm-hmm. And this year's style.
Good for her.
Oh. yes. uh. that… Uh. sorry. that is a society hat.
Money had been invested
into making her fit into polite society.
It is my contention that woman was not
Moriarty's assassin. nor a soldier.
but Moriarty's spy.
- A good suggestion. Tewkesbury.
- Mm-hmm.
If we can figure out who she was spying on.
if she was indeed working for Moriarty.
then the question of her motive
might become easier to answer.
Let me think.
She was speaking with two men before the carnival.
One was the governor.
but the other one. he was wearing a fox mask
and medals.
The brigadier.
Why would he be talking to Moriarty's spy?
Tewkesbury. where are those medals I gave you?
Uh…
He was wearing this one.
It's the same one the soldier at the banquet was wearing.
Please be upstanding.
Afghanistan.
It's from the Anglo-Afghan War.
It was given to those who saw conflict
- in the Battle of Khost.
- Khost.
Khost.
My father fought with my godfather in the Battle of Khost.
- The brigadier?
- We need to speak to him.
How do we speak to him?
Hmm.
These military men are very good at busily saying nothing.
The brigadier's office is this way. Follow me. gentlemen.
No. We need to do as Moriarty was.
We need to be a bit devious.
Now. who here… is good at that?
Incoming.
- There you are.
- That was easier with younger bones.
Here. All right. come on.
You must walk ahead. I will stay
behind you as your man-servant.
No! Why?
Far be it from me to explain the colonies to a colonizer.
Sadly. no one here will understand
a man from his country walking beside women from ours.
- Mother. what's the plan?
- We'll be posh. Don't worry about it.
You're discussing this now?
We are discussing this now. sir. Because this is important.
Did you bring a floor plan?
I beg your pardon. madam.
What's going on? Can I help you?
Excuse me. Yes. hello. Just the man I want.
Could you show us the way to the records room?
- Recor…
- The records room.
Yes. I've been sent by the brigadier.
Brigadier Sampson.
To surprise. uh. my… my… my husband. Colonel Remington.
Remington.
Colonel Remington.
I do not know the name.
- Really?
- No.
Are you quite sure of that?
Y… yes. ma'am. I… I know him.
L… let me… Let me show you him… Records room. you say?
Good.
Do not forget one led the life of a lady before one fled.
I… I'm sorry. I have no news of your mother.
- Oh.
- But the concern is palpable. I have…
- Everything I have is out there searching.
- Thank you for your efforts.
I am actually here for a different reason. sir.
I hoped to ask you about a city called Khost.
Yes. Khost. Yes. I think I know it.
You were there with my father.
In the Anglo-Afghan war.
Khost. I remember it. yes.
Oh. I'm so sorry. How rude. You are?
Dr. Watson. sir.
Captain Watson. I served in Ashanti.
A testing time.
Yes. sir.
You all right there. darling?
We must move quickly before he wakes.
Where do we begin?
We read. darling.
We read.
Anything relating to Khost or the Anglo-Afghan war.
Lord Tewkesbury. Sr.. spoke with me
at length of what happened at Khost.
- So. you knew Peter?
- Oh yeah.
And Peter told me he wished for his son
to be a part of the solution.
I do not like the tone of this conversation.
We come seeking your help.
We feel there is a threat towards the people of Malta.
And we need to know what you know
of what happened in Khost.
Trust me. there are some things
you don't need to know about. boy.
I know what can happen in battle.
The lines that can be crossed.
An army medic. even at the rank of captain.
does not understand the decision...
It was my job to pull the dead from the field.
I faced bullets. I took them.
Have no doubt I understand the consequences.
Khost.
I found it.
Look.
Oh. these files. they have been damaged.
Yes. pages ripped.
Whatever it is. it has permeated
far deeper than we thought.
Look… at the indentations.
I can retrace these.
Mother. do you have a pen…cil?
Thank you.
No!
He's fine.
Anything?
There were British and Maltese soldiers in the battle.
"Mission complete. Death toll incalculable."
"Reparations. one tonne Afghan gold."
"Locals labeled it 'cleansing.' It was theft."
Moriarty knows about the gold.
But how?
Sergeant N. Smith.
Of course.
He was her inside man.
Oh. this is horrible.
Well. the answers we receive
are rarely the answers we seek.
All right. my darling.
We criminals. we've taken you as far as we can.
- Pencil?
- Yes.
Now. on you go. Make hell.
- Tewkesbury!
- I say! I say!
They stole!
They stole. They looted. and they stole in Khost.
- What are you talking about?
- I recognize who she is and what she is...
They killed innocent people.
stole gold from a shrine in Afghanistan.
And they did so from the orders of the British government.
They brought it here to Malta. and they hid it.
Is this true?
Yes.
Now. sir. my father was a good man. You… you know.
Now. tell me…
He was a good man.
There are practicalities in war
that go beyond the mere morality of good.
What are you talking about?
The British government
and the armed forces were at loggerheads.
We were under pressure to reduce costs.
But there was no way of reducing costs.
This was war.
So the decision was made to right matters by…
Thievery?
- Murder?
- No. we saw it as advanced reparations.
It's established practice after war.
for our cost and our loss.
And what of their losses?
Well. you have to understand
that we were fighting for an empire.
And some
miscalculations were made.
Miscalculations?
Miscalculations? Where is your honor?
I'm sorry. sir. what was my father's role in this?
Was he told to do this?
Your father loved you.
Immensely.
The operation…
Was his.
- Excuse me.
- Tewkesbury.
I'm sorry.
Let me.
My father was a soldier as well.
A loyal servant of the British Raj.
He loved the Crown.
Believed in its right to rule India.
And I thought he was right to do so. I was a child.
He was my hero.
The gold. what happened to it?
You do understand what could happen
to Lady Tewkesbury and Sherlock
if you say nothing?
Well. the… The gold was transported here.
Why?
It was to be produced
as though Malta was where it was found.
or. in fact. where it was taken.
But it never returned to Britain. Am I right?
Peter had a crisis of conscience.
Took me until the Ashanti to realize
the damage our Crown had done.
The way we treated the people brutally.
I suddenly saw it so clearly.
I suppose I saw him clearly.
As we returned to Malta.
he waited for his men to come to land.
and then he sunk the ship
and claimed that the gold went down with it.
- He should have returned the gold.
- No.
No. my dear. the British Empire. it cannot admit guilt.
And the embarrassment…
Such was the rage amongst our senior officers. that we…
We feared for our careers. so we…
We blamed the Maltese soldiers
in our unit. Said it was a mutiny.
We allowed them to take the fall for the missing gold.
We are all made.
but the truth… makes us in turn.
More than our heroes.
More than our fathers.
I always thought my father a great man.
Many men get distracted by what it means to be great
and lose themselves in the process.
But to be capable of such horrendous things…
I can't make it any better for you. Lord Tewkesbury.
All I can tell you is. you needn't walk the same path.
Where is the gold now?
Well. I don't know. do I?
He didn't want me to hold responsibility for it.
Oh. Peter said that it was pirate gold
and that he didn't want me
to be tarnished by it. and I was…
Pirate gold?
See that cave?
He told me when I was a boy
that there was treasure hidden inside.
Of course.
With Moriarty. it's never just one thing.
Why shouldn't I have a share of your ill-begotten riches
and punish you at the same time?
She wants to wrong us.
but she also wants the stolen riches.
I know where the gold is. but she doesn't.
Who?
- The puzzle is as devious as the setter.
How could I have missed this?
I should have known it
from the moment she tried to kill me.
She should have killed me.
It would have protected her identity.
I agree that would be useful.
It was a goose chase.
A constructed goose chase.
She laid the traps. and we fell for them.
Wrath.
The discoveries.
Sherlock and Lady Tewkesbury's abductions.
The fire at the hotel.
I'm entirely lost as to what is happening here.
I wouldn't be surprised if she was held responsible
for the smudges of Morse code on his mirror.
The only missing piece that we had was Tewkesbury's father.
A… and she knew of Khost. and she knew of he.
And she knows Tewkesbury loves me.
And only Tewkesbury could bring me to him.
- Me?
- Yes. you.
And you could bring me
to the gold.
She has led us every step of the way.
Tewkesbury.
Hmm.
Tewkesbury. I have…
- I have solved the case.
- You have?
And I have a plan.
Moriarty has spun her web.
and now I must fly into it.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
Yes.
She is watching us somewhere.
but she does not know where the gold is yet.
I will take her there. You know what to do.
- Stay here.
- What if she's hiding deeper in the cave?
Dr. Watson.
this is a good plan.
If she is there. I will deal with her.
Good luck.
Oh. get away!
Dr. Watson?
Sorry.
Where's my brother?
He will be released as soon as I have what I need.
How can we trust you? I have seen two dead by your hands.
Always so superior.
Must you protect gold that is filthy with blood?
Stained you.
as it has stained that floppy boy
whose dirty name you almost took.
But then what of the Holmes name?
I wonder what privilege that is built on.
Hmm?
Sugar? From Jamaica. perhaps?
Silk or cotton from India?
There are few British names that are not tarnished
with the pain of its empire.
There are 20 more boxes inside.
There. You have the gold.
Now where is my brother?
You and your heart.
Do you really think I would hand him over to you so easily?
I will not allow you or your brother
to foil my plans for another moment.
Once again. you are behind the curve. Miss Holmes.
Are you quite sure of that?
You are surrounded!
You are not the only one with friends in Malta. Professor.
Drop your weapons!
- Now!
- Enola!
No!
- No!
- Enola. wait!
Enola!
Hyah!
Help! Help!
We're in here!
I love you.
She's full of this fight.
Sherlock!
Sherlock! Sherlock! Sherlock.
Free her! Free her. Enola!
All right.
Okay. All right.
I'm sorry if this hurts.
- No.
- I'll be back. Breathe.
There!
There. there. there!
No.
No! No. no. no!
Shooting you would make a dull end.
You baited me.
I'm impressed.
Oh. you made it easy.
You're so unlike your brother.
He shows me nothing.
But you?
You're so
emotional!
You're being emotional.
It's understandable.
but unnecessary.
I find it quite understandable…
And very. very necessary.
Days.
Sherlock. no.
Tell me…
Why I should not.
It's not us.
It's not what we believe in.
If we give her to the police. she'll just escape again.
She'll come after us again.
And this whole
bloody affair… will be on repeat.
And repeat.
Shut up!
Sherlock. look at me. please!
Don't do this.
Think.
You're being emotional.
I've been given word that Moriarty
will be transported back to Blighty
with no chance of escape.
Meanwhile. the gold will be traveling
back to Afghanistan with Dr. Watson and I.
where it will be returned to those it was stolen from.
Thanks to Lord Tewkesbury.
I have been granted responsibility
to undertake investigations.
We intend to prosecute all those
involved in crimes on Maltese soil.
Moriarty's actions exposed a great wrong.
The time may have even come
for Malta to be free of the British.
Yes.
Yes. you might be right about that.
I hope you understand why I had to do this.
Your father would be so proud of you.
Is it time?
For Queen and country
and all that that means.
She was brave.
She had a resilience at times that I did not.
Moriarty saw that. tried to stamp it out.
Yet I think she did not succeed.
Share.
Your notebooks.
They were not easy to decipher.
Do you think I would have hope of deciphering yours?
We are siblings.
but our notebooks. like our minds. are our own.
Yes. indeed.
And your mind. Enola.
is one I admire hugely.
Thank you.
Thank you for everything.
For I…
I forgot myself.
You remembered soon enough.
You think you know fear.
then suddenly.
you're in a dark place…
With someone that you cannot protect.
Dr. Watson was there… …fighting for you too.
Good.
He's a good man.
And Tewkesbury. he has more than I thought about him.
Yes. He's worth something.
And Mother. of course.
Her. I'm not so sure about.
What I said
in our
disagreement...
It… it's all right. Consider it forgotten.
I… I said things I didn't mean too.
Enola.
You are a Holmes.
But what I failed to say…
Is that truly…
You are so much more.
You might even be
extraordinary.
Though I do not know when you grew so old.
Turns out. I've been getting older every day.
Yes.
You have.
I never wanted to marry a future Lady of Tewkesbury. I…
But I do wish to be your husband.
I do not wish to take your name.
Nor would I. My name is tarnished beyond all measure.
No. I mean… your title.
I'm giving up my title.
I'm in the process of… of resigning it.
I'll be a lord no more.
Are you sure?
I'll take on our blood name. Tebbity-Gore.
Tebbity…
- Tebbity-Gore?
- Tewkesbury is my given name.
Viscount Tewkesbury. the Marquess of Basilwether.
But. yeah. my… my real name is… is Tebbity-Gore.
You don't like it. do you?
Tewkesbury is my favorite.
But I don't mind.
All I've ever wanted was for you to be you.
and for me to be me.
Enola Holmes.
Earnest Tebbity…
- It just hurts to say.
- It's bad. isn't it?
Does it feel right for you?
I made a mistake with what I said
at the beginning of this tale.
As it turns out. I misunderstood.
It's not that good stories begin with a wedding.
No.
They end with one.
- You look beautiful.
- Thank you.
Did you like being married?
Well. I married the wrong man.
I think you're pairing yourself with the right one.
Mm.
And now.
in the spirit of great partnership…
- Mm-hmm?
- The matter of your wedding gift.
Oh dear.
I thought of jewels. and I thought of books.
and I thought of paintings. flowers.
um. and I decided upon…
Hello.
'Tis I.
Edith. What are you doing here?
Your mother sent me a telegram.
Told me I must find my way here.
Though she is little. she is fierce.
Your name…
Enola.
I'm. um…
Well. I'm glad
it hasn't limited you.
Ah. yes. "alone" backwards.
What a curse to give to your only daughter.
I love my name. Mother. I love all of my name.
Enola Eudoria Holmes.
I will still be a Holmes.
Oh. sadly. my darling.
we are all still tarred with that brush.
I'll see you down there.
I'm Viscount Tewkesbury. the Marquess of Basilwether.
You're a nincompoop.
Shall we. um. stick together?
- People don't seem to want us. do they?
- No.
At least we've got each other.
Look into my eyes. The rhythm is always there.
I can feel it.
That message with the fan at the ball. what did it mean?
It means I love you.
I have something for you.
Enola. did you understand what I said?
You love me. And as it turns out. I love you too.
Oi! Not yet.
Let's begin.
- Hello.
- Hi.
I am Mikiel Mizzi of the Partito Anti-Riformista.
We believe in a free Malta.
Okay. All right.
We wish to be rid of your...
- Okay. listen to the wedding.
- Yeah.
Oh. my darling.
I can see how you look at Enola.
and I can see how she looks at you.
I wish you the greatest happiness.
- Thank you.
- I love you.
Right.
All right.
Um. dearly beloved.
uh. new family…
…welcome.
We are gathered here today
for the partnership of Earnest and Enola.
It'll be a simple ceremony
because I really don't know much of the original by heart.
- Rings. Who has the rings?
- Ah.
Here.
Thank you. sir.
Right. Ready?
Yes.
Earnest.
will you… care for Enola?
Will you be a companion to her?
And will you love her
as she needs be loved?
Do you mind possibly asking her first?
She is rather more complicated in this matter than I.
Indeed.
- Enola...
- I want to be his.
Good.
'Cause I want to be hers.
Well.
then. by the power vested in me by. uh. no one at all…
…I pronounce thee woman and husband.
You may now kiss the husband.
Adeline Rathe. Adeline Rathe.
Wrath.
- Adeline Rathe.